What? Why? Is the data in the right format?

The intent of the visualzation comparing the amount of calories to the presence of calories coming from fat versus carb/protein is to teach the viewer that calories aren't necessarily always bad if they come from carbs and protein but are /really/ bad if they come in equal parts from fat and carb/protein (100% Natural Bran, I'm looking at you). The visualzation technique here is pretty standard, the stacked bars are used to visualize how much of the total each of them contribute (which is why they both start at 0), the first instinct was to make this a pie chart but it would have wasted a lot of screen space to get a circle the size where the user can discern between any two components of the total caloric content. The data here had to be the cereals by themselves, as many companies such as General Mills produced 20 different kinds of cereals ranging from ridiculously unhealthy to marginally acceptable for breakfast.

The fiber visualization is used to teach the user two things: most users don't know there is an recommended dose of fiber (which is why the circles aren't completed with another color), and fiber content becomes highly dependent on the manufacturer (http://www.livestrong.com/article/400696-what-cereal-is-the-best-for-a-diet/), which is why it isn't a per-cereal visualization. The health question is to help provoke the thought that the manufacturer is the one behind the fiber dose, not necessarily the individual cereal. The reason for this visualization is a sort of unique, it was originally going to be done with circles, very similar to the Protovis examples for bubble charts, and would consist of several bubbles. During this visualization I was also wading through Tufte's Visual Display of Quantitative Information where he goes on a near diatribe about the fact that the average viewer of a visualization will never be able to discern the different in areas of circles unless they are magnitudes apart. This made me think, are there arectually magnitudes of importance in your fiber intake for breakfast? Is 5g of fiber per serving a magnitude less than 10g? Instead of going about formulating my own magnitude scale for fiber in your breakfast cereal, I decided to go with bars again. I knew this would be a bad decision since the other graph was bars but it was the only way I saw to effectively show the user the difference between Quaker and Nabisco. After showing a few of my friends the graphs, they were still not convinced (and really not able to tell) the differences between the different manufacturers. If the numbers weren't there, there was no consistent guess otherwise by the majority of users for which values were "much" greater than others. I decided to go with a curve, at first I was thinking of drawing splines, but this ended up being less than ideal as many people weren't comfortable with how long a spline with 30deg concavity was on their computer monitor. I finally came to one metaphor that worked, the pie chart, but instead of stacking pie charts next to each other, this would be an all on one pie chart, and this led me to the circle metaphor that is shown for this visualization. It works amazingly well, and every user was able to guess +/-1 gram of what the projected intake for the manufacturer was. This was perhaps the most rewarding visualization for the assignment, since each graph was shown to a couple users.

The reason for the salt versus vitamins visualization was a personal one, my face is easily affected my salt (and what time of day I take it), if I have a bacon loaded breakfast I am bound to look a little puffy by the end of the day. This is a decision that needs to be made everytime I buy breakfast cereal, is the amount of nutrition worth the amount of salt (a lot for many of the cereals we grew up with as kids...) and if not what is a healthy alternative? This usually consists of a 15 minute rage induced session of going through cereal boxes as if one of them held the golden ticket to the Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory. The plotting looks silly due to the granularity of precision for the vitamin data, but after seeing it as 4 jitter plots for 0, 25, 75, and 100 values - this doesn't look so bad. The way of conveying the data in all of the visualizations is a real effort in trying to promote interaction, even if it is hovering, since I feel like a lot of the time when I see visualizations it looks like Latin if I don't really get what's going on, the obviousness that nothing is labeled for the data until hovered over tries to trigger active thoughts from the user.
